Decision trees struggle with prediction on data unlike its training data.
Random forests offer decision tree simplicity with greatly improved accuracy.

Random forests operate from bootstrapped datasets, which are comprised of randomly selected samples from a full dataset (with duplicates).
Bootstrapped data usually includes ~2/3 of an original dataset. The missing samples are known as the out of bag dataset.
Consider only a subset of variables for each node, instead of considering all variables at once.

Now, repeat the process with new bootstrapped datasets and new variable arrangements. This process is repeated many, many times.
This creates a wide variety of decision trees which can be used to better predict outcomes.

The forest predicts outcomes based on an aggregate total of the outcomes from each of the trees. The most common outcome is the final prediction
This process is known as BAGGING (Bootstrapping + AGGregating).
Prediction can also be tested using out of bag samples with known outcomes. This is a measure of the model's accuracy.
The proportion that are incorrectly predicted is the out of bag error.

You can tweak the number of variables per node to see how it affects accuracy to optimize a model.

Missing data is classified into samples with missing data from the original dataset, and samples with missing data we want to categorize (predict).

For the first type, the strategy is to handle missing data by making guesses and iterating.
We iterate by building another random forest to from similar points in the original dataset. 
These similarities are captured in a proximity matrix. Each proximity value is divided by the number of trees in the forest.
These proximity values are then used as frequency weights which can be used to more precisely estimate missing data based on other data
We repeat this process until the missing values converge.

For the second type, the strategy is also to guess and run a random forest. The more correct guess is accepted.
This guess can be used to classify the sample with missing data.

Adapted from StatQuest: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4Wdy0Wc_xQ, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sQ870aTKqiM